src/content/resources/virtual-coffee-handbook/guides-to-virtual-coffee/slack-channels-guide.mdx, before:

---
meta:
  title: Virtual Coffee Slack Channels Guide
  description: List of channels in our community's Slack.
hero:
  Hero: UndrawQuickChat
tags: [memberresources]
order: 3
---

import LeadText from '@/components/content/LeadText';
import TextContainer from '@/components/content/TextContainer';
import Link from 'next/link';

<TextContainer background="light" showBackToTopLink={false}>

<LeadText>

We provide you here with the complete list of our Slack channels—in alphabetical order—and the purpose of each channel! Don't forget to check the bookmarks and pinned messages on the top of each channel, if any, to find helpful links and resources.

If you need to familiarize yourself with Slack, visit our <Link href="/resources/virtual-coffee-handbook/guides-to-virtual-coffee/what-to-expect-in-virtual-coffee#tips-around-slack">Tips Around Slack</Link> section.

</LeadText>

</TextContainer>

## Table of Contents

<TextContainer>

---

## A

### #accessibility

This channel is all about questions, comments, tips, and resources related to accessibility.

### #add-new-channel

Do you have an idea to add a new channel in Slack? You can discuss it on this channel.

We also post announcements on this channel when new channels are added.

### #announcements

The purpose of this channel is to announce anything related to Virtual Coffee, such as the release of new podcast episodes, newsletters, Virtual Coffee events schedules, reminders, etc.

Check it out regularly so you won't miss our community announcements and events!

#### 🔁 Regular Bot Announcements

- Events of the week: Mondays at 8 AM ET.
- Events of the day: On the day of the event at 8 AM ET.

#### ✅ Joining Events

See the "✅ Joining Events" section in <Link href="/resources/virtual-coffee-handbook/guides-to-virtual-coffee/slack-channels-guide#vc-events">#vc-events</Link>.

### #articles-and-resources

Do you want to share useful tech/non-tech articles and resources? You can drop them here!

## B

### #big-energy

This is a channel that has such big energy! Drop by here if you want to give/get that motivation and big energy for/from others! 🔥

### #book-club

If you love reading, this channel is what you’re looking for. The channel for book lovers and book discussions!

This channel has weekly discussion questions, a reading schedule, and a live group discussion at the end of the book. Head over to the channel's description for the book of the month and the reading schedule.

## C

### #career-advice

Drop them in this channel when you have questions or thoughts on career life—including company culture, navigating red tape, onboarding, etc.!

### #career-management

The channel for managers to talk about management issues, share articles, and ask for advice and tips about management.

### #co-working-room

Do you want to work or learn with people around you or want to hang out with other members? This channel is linked to Zoom and is always open 24/7!

#### ✅ Joining a Co-Working Session

In this channel, click the green button to start a new session or join the ongoing session. It will direct you to our Zoom.

### #coffee

If you are a coffee lover, this channel is for you because it’s all about COFFEE! Beans, beans, beans, the magical fruit!

### #consulting-and-freelancing

This channel is to discuss business aspects of consulting and get support on client issues.

### #content-creation

Do you want some feedback or have any questions about your content? Do you want to share your work with other members? This is the channel that you're looking for!

It's also a place to organize and announce Virtual Coffee content-creation meet-ups.

We also have the link to a form in the channel's description that you can fill out if you want us to share your content on our Twitter.

### #cybersecurity

Do you want to discuss or ask about all things related to cybersecurity? Then you are on the right channel!

## D

### #dev-backend

Do you want to discuss anything about backend development? This is the right channel to go to!

### #dev-code-challenges

Are you doing Exercism, CodeWars, LeetCode, or another code challenge? This channel is perfect for flexing your skills or asking for help!

### #dev-devops-and-cloud

Ask your questions or discuss anything related to DevOps and Cloud development in this channel!

### #dev-frontend

Drop by here for all questions, discussions, articles, and everything frontend. From bundlers to MDN!

### #dev-fullstack

Do you want to discuss or have any questions about full-stack? Then you're looking at the right channel!

### #dev-ml-data-ai

Anything about machine learning (ML), statistics, linguistics, and AI is happening in this channel.

### #dev-vue-crew

The channel to discuss and learn everything about VueJS.

### #dev-wordpress

The place to discuss all things WordPress!

### #devrel

A channel for all things Developer Relations! Contents, travel, community, and more!

## E

### #entertainment

The floodgates are open to discuss all of our beloved entertainment. Music, TV shows, movies, manga/anime, comics, Marvel, etc. As always, the <Link href="/code-of-conduct">Code of Conduct</Link> applies. No NSFW content.

### #external-events

Do you know some non-VC-affiliated tech events and want to share them with us? Drop them here!

## F

### #food

Do you want to share delicious foods you know, your Instagram-like (or not) food pics, or ask and share recipes? We welcome all foodies here!

### #foreign-languages-and-culture

This channel covers all languages, including English. In addition, use this as a space to share different aspects of your various cultures, like regional holidays, family traditions, and anything you find interesting or fun!

## G

### #game-night

Want to game with other Virtual Coffee members? Look no further! It can be anything from a fun website, Catan Online, or even something on Steam.

### #game-result

Did you nail the latest Noodle, Wordle, Hurdle, or Zoodle?!? Go you! 🎉 Share those results here, threading conversations as appropriate.

### #general

This is a place to post anything related to tech in general and extensions of Virtual Coffee's conversations.

#### 🔁 Regular Posts in This Channel

- Notes from weekly Coffees
- Wednesday’s midweek check-in
- Friday’s gratitude

### #goals-and-wins

Share your goals for the week and celebrate your wins in this channel!

### #gratitude

A channel dedicated to shoutouts & kind words. Spread the love 💖!

## H

### #happiness

Just a place to post things, ANYTHING, that makes you happy!

### #health-and-fitness

Because we also need to think of our health! This channel is a place to share anything related to health and sports/workouts that you do.

### #heavy

It's a safe place to share anything heavy without judgment. Ask for support or advice, or know you're being heard 💙.

### #help-and-pairing

Do you have any questions about your code? Or do you need someone to help you by pairing? You can ask for it here!

This channel is not limited to throwing questions or asking for help with code. You can also ask for general opinions about your project, ask for resources, help fill out surveys, or any other tech-related help without judgment!

The list of members' <Link href="/resources/virtual-coffee-handbook/guides-to-virtual-coffee/glossary#office-hours">office hours</Link> and the guide to <Link href="/resources/developer-resources/developer-tips/asking-coding-questions">asking questions about your code</Link> are pinned in this channel.

### #humor

Share those memes, jokes, and laughter with us here! This channel is for humor that embraces the Virtual Coffee <Link href="/code-of-conduct">Code of Conduct</Link>, like 999%.

## I

### #i-love-pets

Pet parents and pet lovers united! Share those cute pet pictures here!

### #i-love-plants

A place for plant parents to trade tips or those that merely respect plants to hang out and take it all in.

### #indie-startup-hackers

The channel for indie hackers, startups, bootstrappers, and side projects.

## J

### #job-hunt

The place for your job hunt and our support for good work in tech.

Virtual Coffee Maintainers do not vet external job postings. Still, posts and interactions in the Virtual Coffee space should adhere to our <Link href="/code-of-conduct">Code of Conduct</Link>.

## L

### #learning-together

What are you learning? Share your progress! What do you want to learn? Look for a study buddy!

### #lgbtq-plus

A compassionate channel where people can feel comfortable expressing their gender and sexual identities and discussing issues in the space.

## M

### #making-stuff

A place to share things you make! Hobbies, crafts, costumes, woodworking, or anything else in real life!

### #mental-health

A place to share status, approaches, and intentional listening. Anything that helps us take care of our mental health.

### #moms-in-tech

A channel where moms-in-tech share their feelings, experiences, and frustrations and get support from other moms.

### #monthly-challenge

The channel to check-in and keep each other informed on our progress in monthly challenges.

You can find the theme of the month's challenge in the channel's description.

## N

### #neurodiverse

Neurodiversity refers to differences in socialization, learning, attention, mood, etc. This is a safe space to discuss these issues. Still, we recognize that neurodiversity is a topic we must approach with nuance, empathy, and open-mindedness.

## O

### #open-source

A place to discuss ways to create, contribute to, and maintain open-source projects. We also drop issues from our repositories we need help with in this channel.

### #overheard-quotes

Do you want to share good or funny quotes from our members or others? Drop them in this channel!

## P

### #parenting

Some of us are parents, and we need support from each other too! You can find it on this channel.

### #past-midnight

The perfect channel for insomniacs!

### #politics

A space that is dedicated to discussing anything about politics.

### #public-speaking

The channel to discuss, share information, and learn together about public speaking.

## Q

### #questions-about-vc

Have questions about Virtual Coffee? What do we do? What we're up to? Tools we use and how to utilize them? Or do you have some ideas for the community that you would share? Drop them here for the community to answer!

## R

### #random

Do you want to share something completely random?
Or do you want to share or ask something, but you're unsure where to drop it?
You can always drop it on this channel!

We encourage you to use this channel whenever you need help finding where to post your thread.
Our Maintainers and/or members will repost it to the suitable channel(s) for more exposure.

### #region-europe

A channel for members in the European region.

## S

### #sportsball

Do you like football, soccer, basketball, or any other sports ball? This channel is dedicated to you, sports ball fans!

## T

### #tech-interview-study-group

Need some feedback on your resume? Have a question about the tech interview process? Need help studying for technical interviews? This channel is a great resource.

This group is made for Virtual Coffee members who may need help studying for technical interviews to come together, ask questions, run study sessions, and generally help each other interview and get the job!

Check the valuable resources in the channel, and feel free to join the <Link href="/resources/virtual-coffee-handbook/guides-to-virtual-coffee/coffee-table-groups#tech-interview-study-group">Coffee Table Group</Link>!

### #tech-products

List your favorite software, learning resources, and equipment—all your tech go-to’s! Also, highlight deals/sales and ask for recommendations here.

### #tech-reminisce

A place to go to talk about tech history.

## V

### #vc-events

This channel is for announcements and discussion of official Virtual Coffee and member-led events open to Virtual Coffee members.

#### 🔁 Regular Bot Announcements

- Event starting soon: 10 minutes before the event start, along with the link to join the event.

#### ✅ Joining Events

The announcement to join an event is dropped 10 minutes before the event. Click the "Join event" button, then you will be directed to the Zoom of the event.

## W

### #web3

Discussing and learning about Web3 and the changes coming to the internet from blockchain technology. Topics include Crypto/NFTs, DAOs, Decentralized Technology, and Non-Crypto Blockchain use cases.

### #welcome

Welcome to the Virtual Coffee Slack party! 👋

Please introduce your awesome selves on this channel. We would like to know you better! 😄

And now you can add your profile to the Members Page on our website! The link to the issue on GitHub is at the bookmark at the top of the channel.

</TextContainer>

Commit message:

Update slack channels (#1378)
* Update exist slack channels

* Run locally and format guide file

* fix: framework names and capitalizations

---------

Co-authored-by: Ayu Adiati <45172775+adiati98@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/resources/virtual-coffee-handbook/guides-to-virtual-coffee/slack-channels-guide.mdx, after:

---
meta:
  title: Virtual Coffee Slack Channels Guide
  description: List of channels in our community's Slack.
hero:
  Hero: UndrawQuickChat
tags: [memberresources]
order: 3
---

import LeadText from '@/components/content/LeadText';
import TextContainer from '@/components/content/TextContainer';
import Link from 'next/link';

<TextContainer background="light" showBackToTopLink={false}>

<LeadText>

We provide you here with the complete list of our Slack channels—in alphabetical order—and the purpose of each channel! Don't forget to check the bookmarks and pinned messages on the top of each channel, if any, to find helpful links and resources.

If you need to familiarize yourself with Slack, visit our <Link href="/resources/virtual-coffee-handbook/guides-to-virtual-coffee/what-to-expect-in-virtual-coffee#tips-around-slack">Tips Around Slack</Link> section.

</LeadText>

</TextContainer>

## Table of Contents

<TextContainer>

---

## A

### #accessibility

This channel is all about questions, comments, tips, and resources related to accessibility.

### #add-new-channel

A place to propose a new channel and make announcement once it's approved.

### #announcements

This channel is for VC official announcements from VC admins and Team Leads. Check it out regularly so you won't miss our community announcements and events!

#### 🔁 Regular Bot Announcements

- Events of the week: Mondays at 8 AM ET.
- Events of the day: On the day of the event at 8 AM ET.

#### ✅ Joining Events

See the "✅ Joining Events" section in <Link href="/resources/virtual-coffee-handbook/guides-to-virtual-coffee/slack-channels-guide#vc-events">#vc-events</Link>.

### #articles-and-resources

Do you want to share useful tech/non-tech articles and resources? You can drop them here!

## B

### #big-energy

This is a channel that has such big energy! Drop by here if you want to give/get that motivation and big energy for/from others!

### #book-club

If you love reading, this channel is what you’re looking for. The channel for book lovers and book discussions!

This channel has weekly discussion questions, a reading schedule, and a live group discussion at the end of the book. Head over to the channel's description for the book of the month and the reading schedule.

## C

### #career-advice

The channel for questions or thoughts on career life, including company culture, navigating red tape, onboarding, etc.

### #career-management

The channel for managers to talk about management issues, share articles, and ask for advice and tips about management.

### #co-working-room

Do you want to work or learn with people around you or want to hang out with other members? This channel is linked to Zoom and is always open 24/7!

#### ✅ Joining a Co-Working Session

In this channel, click the green button to start a new session or join the ongoing session. It will direct you to our Zoom.

### #coffee

If you are a coffee lover, this channel is for you because it’s all about COFFEE! Beans, beans, beans, the magical fruit!

### #consulting-and-freelancing

Discuss business aspects of consulting and get support on client issues in this channel.

### #content-creation

Creating content about code, your journey into code, or anything else? This channel is to support, offer feedback, and check out what you’ve created. It can be written, audio, video, or anything else!

**Note:** If you want us to share your content on our X account, you can fill out the form that you can find on the channel's description.

### #cybersecurity

A place to discuss all things related to cybersecurity.

## D

### #design

This channel is for discussing ideas, having conversations, and asking feedback related to design.

### #dev-backend

Backend shenanigans channel! Node, Spring, ASP.NET, Django, Ruby on Rails, the works!

### #dev-code-challenges

Are you doing LeetCode, Exercism, CodeWars, or another code challenge? This channel is perfect for asking for help and solving coding challenges together with the community!

### #dev-devops-and-cloud

Ask your questions or discuss anything related to DevOps and Cloud development in this channel!

### #dev-frontend

A channel for all things frontend. From bundlers to MDN.

### #dev-fullstack

This channel is for all your MERN, MEAN, PERN, t3.gg, Spring/Hibernate, ASP.NET/Entity, full-stack fun!

### #dev-ml-data-ai

Anything about machine learning (ML), statistics, linguistics, and AI is happening in this channel.

### #dev-vue-crew

The channel to discuss and learn everything about VueJS.

### #dev-wordpress

A place to discuss all things WordPress.

### #devrel

The channel to talk about all things Developer Relations: content, travel, community, and more.

## E

### #entertainment

The floodgates are open to discuss all of our beloved entertainment. Music, TV shows, movies, manga/anime, comics, Marvel, etc. As always, the <Link href="/code-of-conduct">Code of Conduct</Link> applies. No NSFW content.

### #external-events

If you want to share non-VC-affiliated tech events with the community, drop them here!

## F

### #food

Do you want to share delicious foods you know, your Instagram-like (or not) food pics, or ask and share recipes? We welcome all foodies here!

### #foreign-languages-and-culture

This channel covers all languages, including English. In addition, use this as a space to share different aspects of your various cultures, like regional holidays, family traditions, and anything you find interesting or fun!

## G

### #game-night

Want to game with other Virtual Coffee members? Look no further! It can be anything from a fun website, Catan Online, or even something on Steam.

### #game-result

Did you nail the latest Noodle, Wordle, Hurdle, or Zoodle?!? Go you! 🎉 Share those results here, threading conversations as appropriate.

### #general

This is a place to post anything related to tech in general and extensions of Virtual Coffee's conversations.

#### 🔁 Regular Posts in This Channel

- Notes from weekly Coffees
- Wednesday’s midweek check-in
- Friday’s gratitude

### #goals-and-wins

Share your goals for the week and celebrate your wins in this channel!

## H

### #happiness-and-gratitude

A channel dedicated to shoutouts, kind words, and things that make your heart bursts with happiness.

### #health-and-fitness

Because we also need to think of our health! This channel is a place to share anything related to health and sports/workouts that you do.

### #heavy

It's a safe place to share anything heavy without judgment. Ask for support or advice, or know you're being heard 💙.

### #help-and-pairing

Do you have any questions about your code? Or do you need someone to help you by pairing? You can ask for it here!

This channel is not limited to throwing questions or asking for help with code. You can also ask for general opinions about your project, ask for resources, help fill out surveys, or any other tech-related help without judgment!

The list of members' <Link href="/resources/virtual-coffee-handbook/guides-to-virtual-coffee/glossary#office-hours">office hours</Link> and the guide to <Link href="/resources/developer-resources/developer-tips/asking-coding-questions">asking questions about your code</Link> are pinned in this channel.

### #humor

Share those memes, jokes, and laughter with us here! This channel is for humor that embraces the Virtual Coffee <Link href="/code-of-conduct">Code of Conduct</Link>, like 999%.

## I

### #i-love-animals

Share your pictures, links and interesting facts about animals, domesticated or wild here.

### #i-love-plants

A place for plant parents to trade tips or those that merely respect plants to hang out and take it all in.

### #indie-startup-hackers

The channel for indie hackers, startups, bootstrappers, and side projects.

## J

### #job-hunt

The place for your job hunt and our support for good work in tech.

Virtual Coffee Maintainers do not vet external job postings. Still, posts and interactions in the Virtual Coffee space should adhere to our <Link href="/code-of-conduct">Code of Conduct</Link>.

## L

### #learning-together

What are you learning? Share your progress! What do you want to learn? Look for a study buddy!

### #lgbtq-plus

A compassionate channel where people can feel comfortable expressing their gender and sexual identities and discussing issues in the space.

## M

### #making-stuff

A place to share things you make outside of the computer! Hobbies, crafts, costumes, woodworking, robots, LEDs, etc.

### #mental-health

A place to share status, approaches, and intentional listening. Anything that helps us take care of our mental health.

### #moms-in-tech

A channel where moms-in-tech share their feelings, experiences, and frustrations and get support from other moms.

### #monthly-challenge

The channel to check-in and keep each other informed on our progress in monthly challenges.

You can find the theme of the month's challenge in the channel's description.

## N

### #neurodiverse

Neurodiversity refers to differences in socialization, learning, attention, mood, etc. This is a safe space to discuss these issues. Still, we recognize that neurodiversity is a topic we must approach with nuance, empathy, and open-mindedness.

## O

### #open-source

A place to discuss ways to create, contribute to, and maintain open-source projects. We also drop issues from our repositories we need help with in this channel.

### #overheard-quotes

Do you want to share good or funny quotes from our members or others? Drop them in this channel!

## P

### #pack-hunt

A weekly event where we provide support, accountability, and help motivate each other as we trudge through the cruel and ruthless depths of job hunting. This is an active space where we focus on specific tasks of our job hunt and goals.

### #parenting

Some of us are parents, and we need support from each other too! You can find it on this channel.

### #past-midnight

The perfect channel for insomniacs!

### #politics

A space that is dedicated to discussing anything about politics.

### #public-speaking

The channel to discuss, share information, and learn together about public speaking.

## Q

### #questions-about-vc

Have questions about Virtual Coffee? What do we do? What we're up to? Tools we use and how to utilize them? Or do you have some ideas for the community that you would share? Drop them here for the community to answer!

## R

### #random

Do you want to share something completely random?
Or do you want to share or ask something, but you're unsure where to drop it?
You can always drop it on this channel!

We encourage you to use this channel whenever you need help finding where to post your thread.
Our Maintainers and/or members will repost it to the suitable channel(s) for more exposure.

### #region-europe

A channel for members in the European region.

## S

### #sportsball

Do you like football, soccer, basketball, or any other sports ball? This channel is dedicated to you, sports ball fans!

## T

### #tech-interview-study-group

Need some feedback on your resume? Have a question about the tech interview process? Need help studying for technical interviews? This channel is a great resource.

This group is made for Virtual Coffee members who may need help studying for technical interviews to come together, ask questions, run study sessions, and generally help each other interview and get the job!

Check the valuable resources in the channel, and feel free to join the <Link href="/resources/virtual-coffee-handbook/guides-to-virtual-coffee/coffee-table-groups#tech-interview-study-group">Coffee Table Group</Link>!

### #tech-products

List your favorite software, learning resources, and equipment—all your tech go-to’s! Also, highlight deals/sales and ask for recommendations here.

### #tech-reminisce

A place to go to talk about tech history.

## V

### #vc-events

This channel is for announcements and discussion of official Virtual Coffee and member-led events open to Virtual Coffee members.

#### 🔁 Regular Bot Announcements

- Event starting soon: 10 minutes before the event start, along with the link to join the event.

#### ✅ Joining Events

The announcement to join an event is dropped 10 minutes before the event. Click the "Join event" button, then you will be directed to the Zoom of the event.

## W

### #web3

Discussing and learning about Web3 and the changes coming to the internet from blockchain technology. Topics include Crypto/NFTs, DAOs, Decentralized Technology, and Non-Crypto Blockchain use cases.

### #welcome

Welcome to the Virtual Coffee Slack party! 👋

Please introduce your awesome selves on this channel. We would like to know you better! 😄

And now you can add your profile to the Members Page on our website! The link to the issue on GitHub is at the bookmark at the top of the channel.

</TextContainer>
