app/routes/__frontend/resources/virtual-coffee/join-virtual-coffee/faq.mdx, before:

---
meta:
  title: FAQ Around Joining Virtual Coffee
  description: We're answering your questions about joining Virtual Coffee!
hero:
  Hero: UndrawJoin
tags: [memberresources]
order: 1
---

import LeadText from '~/components/content/LeadText';
import TextContainer from '~/components/content/TextContainer';
import { Link } from '@remix-run/react';

## Table of Contents

<TextContainer>

---

## How can I join Virtual Coffee?

### 1. Join the Waiting List or Receive an Invite

<LeadText>

We our now accepting new members on a limited basis!

</LeadText>

If you are interested in joining Virtual Coffee, you can <Link to="/join">join the waiting list</Link> or receive an invite from a current member.

Once we've accepted you and added to our membership, you will receive an email with links to our Coffees.

### 2. Attend one of our Coffees (Zoom Meetings)

<LeadText>

You need to attend one of our <Link to="/resources/virtual-coffee/guide-to-virtual-coffee/what-to-expect-in-virtual-coffee#coffees-zoom-meetings">Coffees (Zoom Meetings)</Link> on **Tuesday at 9:00 AM ET** or **Thursday at 12:00 PM ET** that last an hour.

</LeadText>

We absolutely love the closeness of this community and know it’s one of the many things that sets us apart. This closeness starts with those coffees.

We would also like to give you the experience of Virtual Coffee in person before we move to Slack group.

### 3. Now you’re a full member! Welcome! 👋

Once you join one of our Coffees, be sure to tell your room leader that you're a new member.

After the Coffee is over, you'll receive an email with a link to our Slack group and more information.

You can introduce yourself in the `#welcome` channel and join our members-only events. We would love to know who you are, where you are in your tech journey, and what you enjoy outside of tech!

---

## What is going on in Coffees?

We’re getting to know other members, old and new, through casual conversations on Zoom. We prioritize empathy, encouraging everyone to participate in the ways that are most comfortable to them, and learning together.
Check out our <Link to="/resources/virtual-coffee/guide-to-virtual-coffee/">Virtual Coffee Handbook</Link> for more details.

---

## Are there any other days and times for Coffees?

Not yet, but we're working on it!

---

## I’m an introvert. Would it be okay to turn off my camera during Coffees?

If you aren't comfortable having your camera or even sound on, feel free to turn them off! There is no obligation for you to have them on. You can always drop chat if it’s more convenient for you. We want you to be as comfortable as possible in our coffees.

---

## I’m a newbie. Can I still join Virtual Coffee?

Of course! Our members are at all stages of the journey. Anyone can join, whether you're thinking about getting into tech or have been in it for decades!

---

## I’m not a developer. Can I still join Virtual Coffee?

Absolutely! If you’re into online communities, and enjoy conversations around tech, then Virtual Coffee is for you!

---

## What will I get when I join Virtual Coffee?

You can participate in our <Link to="/events">events</Link>, have access to our Slack, get support and help as you need, mentorship, and most of all, FRIENDSHIPS!
Feel free to take a glimpse of <Link to="/resources/virtual-coffee/guide-to-virtual-coffee/what-to-expect-in-virtual-coffee">what’s going on in Virtual Coffee</Link> to get some more insights.

---

## Is there any membership fee?

None, _nada_! You don’t need to pay memberships to join Virtual Coffee.
Our members volunteer their time and support for Virtual Coffee.
[Sponsorships](https://github.com/sponsors/Virtual-Coffee) helps us to continue serving the Virtual Coffee community and to support all of the things you see on this website!

</TextContainer>

<TextContainer background="light">

See you in one of our Coffees! ☕

If you have any other questions, you can email them to our Maintainers at hello@virtualcoffee.io.

</TextContainer>

Commit message:

Fix wordings across pages in guide to virtual coffee

app/routes/__frontend/resources/virtual-coffee/join-virtual-coffee/faq.mdx, after:

---
meta:
  title: FAQ Around Joining Virtual Coffee
  description: We're answering your questions about joining Virtual Coffee!
hero:
  Hero: UndrawJoin
tags: [memberresources]
order: 1
---

import LeadText from '~/components/content/LeadText';
import TextContainer from '~/components/content/TextContainer';
import { Link } from '@remix-run/react';

## Table of Contents

<TextContainer>

---

## How can I join Virtual Coffee?

### 1. Join the Waiting List or Receive an Invite

<LeadText>

We our now accepting new members on a limited basis!

</LeadText>

If you are interested in joining Virtual Coffee, you can <Link to="/join">join the waiting list</Link> or receive an invite from a current member.

Once we've accepted you and added to our membership, you will receive an email with links to our Coffees.

### 2. Attend one of our Coffees (Zoom Meetings)

<LeadText>

You need to attend one of our <Link to="/resources/virtual-coffee/guide-to-virtual-coffee/what-to-expect-in-virtual-coffee#coffees-zoom-meetings">Coffees (Zoom Meetings)</Link> on **Tuesday at 9:00 AM ET** or **Thursday at 12:00 PM ET** that last an hour.

</LeadText>

We absolutely love the closeness of this community and know it’s one of the many things that sets us apart. This closeness starts with those coffees.

We would also like to give you the experience of Virtual Coffee in person before we move to Slack group.

### 3. Now you’re a full member! Welcome! 👋

Once you join one of our Coffees, be sure to tell your room leader that you're a new member.

After the Coffee is over, you'll receive an email with a link to our Slack group and more information.

You can introduce yourself in the `#welcome` channel and join our members-only events. We would love to know who you are, where you are in your tech journey, and what you enjoy outside of tech!

---

## What is going on in Coffees?

We’re getting to know other members, old and new, through casual conversations on Zoom. We prioritize empathy, encouraging everyone to participate in the most comfortable ways and learning together. Check out our <Link to="/resources/virtual-coffee/guide-to-virtual-coffee/">Guide To Virtual Coffee</Link> for more details.

---

## Are there any other days and times for Coffees?

Not yet, but we're working on it!

---

## I’m an introvert. Would it be okay to turn off my camera during Coffees?

If you aren't comfortable having your camera or sound on, you can always turn them off. There is no obligation for you to have them on. You can always drop chat if it's more convenient for you. We want you to be as comfortable as possible in our Coffees.

---

## I’m a newbie. Can I still join Virtual Coffee?

Of course! Our members are at all stages of the journey. Anyone can join, whether you're thinking about getting into tech or have been in it for decades!

---

## I’m not a developer. Can I still join Virtual Coffee?

Absolutely! If you’re into online communities, and enjoy conversations around tech, then Virtual Coffee is for you!

---

## What will I get when I join Virtual Coffee?

You can participate in our <Link to="/events">events</Link>, access our Slack, get support and help as needed, get mentorship, and most of all, FRIENDSHIPS!
See the "<Link to="/resources/virtual-coffee/guide-to-virtual-coffee/what-to-expect-in-virtual-coffee">What To Expect In Virtual Coffee</Link>" page for more insights.

---

## Is there any membership fee?

None, _nada_! You don’t need to pay memberships to join Virtual Coffee.
Our members volunteer their time and support for Virtual Coffee.
[Sponsorships](https://github.com/sponsors/Virtual-Coffee) help us to continue serving the Virtual Coffee community and to support all of the things you see on this website!

</TextContainer>

<TextContainer background="light">

See you in one of our Coffees! ☕

If you have any other questions, you can email them to our Maintainers at hello@virtualcoffee.io.

</TextContainer>
