app/routes/resources/open-source/about-open-source.mdx, before:

---
meta:
  title: About Open Source
  description: 'A general Virtual Coffee guide to all things Open Source!'
tags: [memberresources]
hero:
  Hero: UndrawToDoList
order: 1
---

import LeadText from '~/components/content/LeadText';
import TextContainer from '~/components/content/TextContainer';

<TextContainer showBackToTopLink={false}>

# What is this document for?

<LeadText>

This document is Part 1 of Virtual Coffee's four-part Guide to Open Source, focusing on an overview of the open source ecosystem, what it is and how it is governed and funded.

</LeadText>

</TextContainer>

## Table of Contents

<TextContainer background="light">

## What is open source?

Open source is defined by a number of cultural and legal factors.

Code is generally made freely available, both in the sense that it is accessible for public view, and that it is distributed under a copyright license that permits reuse, modification and redistribution. There are a variety of different licenses in common use, some of which grant almost complete freedom, including to incorporate code into commercial, closed-source projects, while others may be more restrictive, for example by requiring that projects the code is incorporated into are themselves released under the same license. The boundary between open source and closed source can be a matter of debate, with some projects released under licenses that are not universally accepted as open source.

There is a culture in open source of building off of each other's work. You can take an open source project and extend it or incorporate it into another project, as long as you comply with the terms of the license. Package managers such as NPM can also be used to incorporate other open source code into your project.

The ecosystem of open source software is vast, ranging from GUI programs through libraries and modules designed to provide specific functionality to other programs, frameworks and programming languages themselves, platform infrastructure behind decentralized social networks, blockchain protocols and simple personal projects and creative coding.

Although best known in software, the concepts of open source can extend to any field with intellectual property, and there is a developing open source scene in hardware, design systems, and designs for 3D printable goods among other fields. This guide primarily deals with the software field, but the principles could be applicable to any open source field.

## Good to know: Funding, Governance and Career Building in Open Source:

### Funding models

There are a number of different models for funding the running and development of open source projects:

- Some projects are run as personal projects of their creator, with any costs being met out of the creators own pockets and work being done by the creator and other volunteer contributors. Sometimes these projects may use something like Github Sponsors or other sites allowing people to donate small amounts to cover costs or compensate the creator for their time.
- Larger projects with a team of maintainers or a non-profit behind them may use the same funding model but will often supplement this with more ways to donate. Maintainers and contributors of these projects will also normally be volunteers, with money raised being typically used to cover costs such as website hosting or costs of services the organization uses.
- Some projects are entirely funded by a company or organization that is also the maintainer of the project alongside their core business. These projects typically use a combination of paid team members and volunteer contributors to get work done. Some projects are entirely developed by a paid in-house team and don't normally receive external contributions, but are released to the public under an open source license.
- Some projects form the core part of a commercial enterprise, with the company typically making money from providing support, paid licenses with additional capabilities or paid services that incorporate the open source project. These projects typically have the majority of the work done by a paid in-house team but may also accept external volunteer contributions.

### Governance models

There are a number of different models for governance of open source projects:

- A very common model is the "Benevolent Dictatorship", where a single project creator makes or leads the decision making process. They may consult and take input from the community, but ultimately all authority rests with the benevolent dictator.
- Some projects are governed by various non-profit organizational structures, which will commonly have at least an agreed upon set of rules for decision making. Larger projects may be run by incorporated organizations with a formal constitution and official positions, along with a member or committee structure to administer the organization and make decisions.
- Projects backed by a single company will typically be governed by the internal procedures of the company, although a few may have a legally separate organization allowing for community involvement or ownership of the project.
- Projects such as programming languages or platform standards will often be governed by a foundation with corporate or individual members who have an interest in the project and who appoint a core team or committee that administers the organization and makes decisions.
- In the blockchain and cryptocurrency space Distributed Autonomous Organizations (DAOs) are emerging as a popular choice. While the details differ from project to project, these will typically feature a governance token on a blockchain that can be transferred and/or bought and sold, whose holders are allowed to vote on proposals.

### How to use open source to build your resume / building your career with open source

{/* I would like some input on what to include in this section */}

</TextContainer>

Commit message:

Add career resources to open source guide

app/routes/resources/open-source/about-open-source.mdx, after:

---
meta:
  title: About Open Source
  description: 'A general Virtual Coffee guide to all things Open Source!'
tags: [memberresources]
hero:
  Hero: UndrawToDoList
order: 1
---

import LeadText from '~/components/content/LeadText';
import TextContainer from '~/components/content/TextContainer';

<TextContainer showBackToTopLink={false}>

# What is this document for?

<LeadText>

This document is Part 1 of Virtual Coffee's four-part Guide to Open Source, focusing on an overview of the open source ecosystem, what it is and how it is governed and funded.

</LeadText>

</TextContainer>

## Table of Contents

<TextContainer background="light">

## What is open source?

Open source is defined by a number of cultural and legal factors.

Code is generally made freely available, both in the sense that it is accessible for public view, and that it is distributed under a copyright license that permits reuse, modification and redistribution. There are a variety of different licenses in common use, some of which grant almost complete freedom, including to incorporate code into commercial, closed-source projects, while others may be more restrictive, for example by requiring that projects the code is incorporated into are themselves released under the same license. The boundary between open source and closed source can be a matter of debate, with some projects released under licenses that are not universally accepted as open source.

There is a culture in open source of building off of each other's work. You can take an open source project and extend it or incorporate it into another project, as long as you comply with the terms of the license. Package managers such as NPM can also be used to incorporate other open source code into your project.

The ecosystem of open source software is vast, ranging from GUI programs through libraries and modules designed to provide specific functionality to other programs, frameworks and programming languages themselves, platform infrastructure behind decentralized social networks, blockchain protocols and simple personal projects and creative coding.

Although best known in software, the concepts of open source can extend to any field with intellectual property, and there is a developing open source scene in hardware, design systems, and designs for 3D printable goods among other fields. This guide primarily deals with the software field, but the principles could be applicable to any open source field.

## Good to know: Funding, Governance and Career Building in Open Source:

### Funding models

There are a number of different models for funding the running and development of open source projects:

- Some projects are run as personal projects of their creator, with any costs being met out of the creators own pockets and work being done by the creator and other volunteer contributors. Sometimes these projects may use something like Github Sponsors or other sites allowing people to donate small amounts to cover costs or compensate the creator for their time.
- Larger projects with a team of maintainers or a non-profit behind them may use the same funding model but will often supplement this with more ways to donate. Maintainers and contributors of these projects will also normally be volunteers, with money raised being typically used to cover costs such as website hosting or costs of services the organization uses.
- Some projects are entirely funded by a company or organization that is also the maintainer of the project alongside their core business. These projects typically use a combination of paid team members and volunteer contributors to get work done. Some projects are entirely developed by a paid in-house team and don't normally receive external contributions, but are released to the public under an open source license.
- Some projects form the core part of a commercial enterprise, with the company typically making money from providing support, paid licenses with additional capabilities or paid services that incorporate the open source project. These projects typically have the majority of the work done by a paid in-house team but may also accept external volunteer contributions.

### Governance models

There are a number of different models for governance of open source projects:

- A very common model is the "Benevolent Dictatorship", where a single project creator makes or leads the decision making process. They may consult and take input from the community, but ultimately all authority rests with the benevolent dictator.
- Some projects are governed by various non-profit organizational structures, which will commonly have at least an agreed upon set of rules for decision making. Larger projects may be run by incorporated organizations with a formal constitution and official positions, along with a member or committee structure to administer the organization and make decisions.
- Projects backed by a single company will typically be governed by the internal procedures of the company, although a few may have a legally separate organization allowing for community involvement or ownership of the project.
- Projects such as programming languages or platform standards will often be governed by a foundation with corporate or individual members who have an interest in the project and who appoint a core team or committee that administers the organization and makes decisions.
- In the blockchain and cryptocurrency space Distributed Autonomous Organizations (DAOs) are emerging as a popular choice. While the details differ from project to project, these will typically feature a governance token on a blockchain that can be transferred and/or bought and sold, whose holders are allowed to vote on proposals.

### Getting into Open Source and building your career

Doing open source work is a great way to improve your skills, build your portfolio and get noitcied by others in the industry.

Working out how to get started can be the hardest part, so we've put together a list of resources to help you get going:

Virtual Coffee's own:

- [Contributor Guide](./contributor-guide) if you are looking to get into contributing to other people's projects.
- [Maintainer Guide](./maintainer-guide) if you are looking to get into maintaining your own open source project.

Recommended resources from outside Virtual Coffee:

- [What Open Source Project Should I Contribute To?, by Kent C Dodds](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/what-open-source-project-should-i-contribute-to)
- [I Made My First Open Source Contribution Within 200 Days, by Joe Previte](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/i-made-my-first-open-source-contribution-within-200-days-and-how-you-can-too-4d5bdbd63fad)
- [Becoming an Open Source Project Maintainer, by Kent C Dodds](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/becoming-an-open-source-project-maintainer)
- [TwilioQuest](https://www.twilio.com/quest) is an interactive game that can help teach you how to contribute.

Open Source work is valued experience by many employers in tech, so you should definitely make space for your ontributions on your resume. Especially if you are looking for your first developer job, it will help you stand out from other candidates.

It is also worth remebering that contributing to Open Source does not require writing code. Improving documentation, working on marketing or community building or design or illustration contributions are equally valuable to projects.

</TextContainer>
