app/routes/resources/open-source/git-101.mdx, before:

---
meta:
  title: Git & Github 101
  description: 'A guide to using Git and Github.'
tags: [memberresources]
hero:
  Hero: UndrawSoftwareEngineer
order: 2
---

import LeadText from '~/components/content/LeadText';
import TextContainer from '~/components/content/TextContainer';

<TextContainer showBackToTopLink={false}>

# What is this document for?

<LeadText>

This document is Part 2 of Virtual Coffee's four-part Guide to Open Source. It aims to offer an overview of some of the most useful Git and Github workflows that you might use when contributing to Open Source.

</LeadText>

</TextContainer>

## Table of Contents

<TextContainer background="light">

---

## Using Git

### Basic Git workflows

#### Cloning a repository

To clone a repository, you can run `git clone <Repo>` where the Repo is the URL of the repository. This will set up a copy of the repository on your local computer, with the remote repository you cloned from as the `origin` remote.

#### Adding another remote

You will normally clone a forked version of the repository, but you may want to add the original version as a remote as well so you can pull other people's changes into your local repository. This remote is conventionally called `upstream` and can be added using `git remote add upstream <Repo>` where Repo is the URL of the original repository.

#### Synchronizing changes

When new changes are merged into the original repository, you should pull them into your local copy. If you have set your `upstream` repository, this can be done using `git pull upstream main`. Some repositories use a name other than `main` for their main branch, in which case you replace `main` with the name it uses. You can pull the main branch directly into your working branch.

When you have made changes on your local machine and you want to submit them via a pull request, you first need to push your changes to your fork using `git push origin your-branch-name`.

### Advanced Git workflows

Collaborating with someone on a contribution and synchronizing your work:

The following workflows are useful when collaborating with another person in Open Source

#### Workflow for checking out someone elses branch on your local machine

Assuming that Alice and Bob both have a fork of the project, and Alice wants to check out Bob's branch:

1. Alice adds Bob's fork as a remote on her local repository using `git remote add bob <Bob's Repo URL>`.
2. Alice fetches Bob's branches using `git fetch bob`.
3. Alice can now check out Bob's branch using `git checkout bobs-branch-name`.
4. Alice can now pull changes pushed by Bob using `git pull bob bobs-branch-name`.

#### Workflow for collaborating on a shared branch between two different forks

Assuming that Alice and Bob both have a fork of the project they want to contribute to:

1. Alice adds Bob's fork as a remote on her local repository using `git remote add bob <Bob's Repo URL>`.
2. Bob adds Alice's fork as a remote on his local repository using `git remote add alice <Alice's Repo URL>`.
3. Alice can now pull changes pushed by Bob using `git pull bob branch-name`.
4. Bob can now pull changes pushed by Alice using `git pull alice branch-name`.
5. Either Alice or Bob can submit the pull request once they have all the work on their fork of the project.
6. Each commit will automatically contain either Alice or Bob's name, so each person's contributions can be identified.

`git fetch` can be used to fetch branches from someone elses remote, for example Bob run `git fetch alice` in the above scenario to fetch all Alice's branches.

Once branches have been fetched, they can then be checked out locally using `git checkout` in the same way as checking out a local branch.

`git remote -v` can be useful to check that all your remotes are configured as you expect. It will print a list of your remotes.

## Using Github

What is Github? Github is a platform for hosting, sharing and collaborating on Git repositories. Gitlab and Bitbucket are two other similar platforms.

You can interact with Github through the web GUI on [github.com](https://github.com). If you prefer working with the command line, there is also a [Github CLI](https://cli.github.com).

### Getting the most out of your Github profile

You can make basic customizations of your profile in your settings, add a website and Twitter links, a short bio and customize your pinned repositories to showcase the work you most want the world to see. But to really customize your profile you need to create a repository in your account with the same name as your Github username and pop in a Readme. The contents of that Readme file, in Github-flavored markdown, will be rendered on your profile page. There are all kinds of cool integrations you can add to this readme to do awesome things on your profile. These two articles: [Creating a Killer GitHub Profile README, by Braydon Coyer](https://daily.dev/blog/creating-a-killer-github-profile-readme-part-1) and [How to Create Beautiful GitHub Profil Readme.md, by Indrajeet Nikam](https://fullyunderstood.com/how-to-create-beautiful-github-profile-readmemd/) will hopefully give you some inspiration.

This is an example of one of our member's profiles built using a profile readme:

![An example profile page](https://ams03pap002files.storage.live.com/y4mRCWqe-HFTvjsstwwqyHWhS3sithntcM0bpqad2-S6_2dMCx982CrqDnV9bxVSWrdbFRDNpcqdnte5FqHahDqB4tcxDb8xFVg4l2nMT_4X7pFQ4fm80S1gFaaqh9hy5cNH8hZ8xHE1Tj9XtzhpKE6eMiFnGFR6OqeRXfxNECArhp2ZQoOAngWRPXpqJm7KVid?width=821&height=907&cropmode=none)

### Basic Github workflows:

#### Forking a repository:

If you want to contribute to an open source project, the first step is normally to fork the repository to your own Github profile. This means you create a copy of the repository in your profile so that you can make changes without having to push commits directly to the project repository. The steps to do so are:

1. Click on the fork button on the repository page.
2. You will probably be asked where you want to fork the repository to. Unless you are forking on behalf of an organization, you should click on your personal profile name.
3. Github will then fork the repository to your profile. You can then work with this forked repository going forward.

#### Cloning a repository to your local computer

Although you can edit files directly within the Github UI, if you are changing the code you will normally want to clone it to your local computer and work in your favorite IDE. To do this you will need to clone the repository. To do this, click on the green `Code` button on your forked version of the repository. You will then see a dialog with options to clone via HTTPS, SSH or Github CLI. The HTTPS and SSH (Used if you authenticate with Github via SSH, see section below) tabs provide you with the repository URL to insert into the `git clone` command from the Git section above. If you use Github CLI you can simply copy the command and run it in your terminal.

#### Authenticating with Github

If you want to work locally with Github repositories, you will need to authenticate your local git with Github (You don't need to do this to simply clone a public repository via HTTPS). You can either use a Personal Access Token to authenticate over HTTPS ([Instructions here](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/about-authentication-to-github#https)) or by using SSH public/private keypairs ([Instructions here](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/about-authentication-to-github#ssh)).

#### Fetching upstream changes

When contributing to a project, you need to keep your fork up to date with the original, generally known as the upstream repository. You can do this using the Synchronizing Changes Git workflow outlined above, or you can use the `Fetch upstream` button on your fork. This will allow you to either automatically fetch the changes, or choose to compare them first before merging.

#### Making a pull request

Once you have done some work on a project and you have your changes in your forked version of the repository, you can now submit the changes to the upstream repository by making a pull request. This allows the maintainers to review your work, make comments and request any necessary changes, and if they are happy, merge your changes into the project codebase. Before making a pull request you should make sure to fetch any upstream changes. The steps to make a pull request are:

1. Either navigate to `Pull Requests` on the upstream repository and click the green `New pull request` button or on you forked repository, select the branch you'd like to submit, click on `contribute` and then `Open pull request`. If you have recently pushed changes to Github, you should also see a banner at the top of the page with a `Compare and pull request` button you can click on.
2. You will then get taken to the Open pull request form, where you can create a description of your pull request. Here you should check out the project's Contributing guidelines and follow any conventions described. Many projects will have a pull request template to help you get it right.
3. Once you are ready, click `Create pull request`. Congratulations, you have made your pull request 🎉.
4. If a maintainer requests changes you can make the requested changes and push new commits to the same branch and they will automatically be added to the pull request.

</TextContainer>

Commit message:

Git & Github 101 feedback on Guide to Open Source

app/routes/resources/open-source/git-101.mdx, after:

---
meta:
  title: Git & Github 101
  description: 'A guide to using Git and Github.'
tags: [memberresources]
hero:
  Hero: UndrawSoftwareEngineer
order: 2
---

import LeadText from '~/components/content/LeadText';
import TextContainer from '~/components/content/TextContainer';

<TextContainer showBackToTopLink={false}>

# What is this document for?

<LeadText>

This document is Part 2 of Virtual Coffee's four-part Guide to Open Source. It aims to offer an overview of some of the most useful Git and Github workflows that you might use when contributing to Open Source.

</LeadText>

</TextContainer>

## Table of Contents

<TextContainer background="light">

---

## Using Git

### Basic Git workflows

#### Cloning a repository

If you have a repositroy on Github or another code sharing platform or on a server somewhere, you clone it. To do this, you can run `git clone <Repo>` where the Repo is the URL of the repository. This will set up a copy of the repository on your local computer, with the remote repository you cloned from as the `origin` remote. Remember cloning is different from forking, for an explanation of forking, see the Github section below.

#### Adding another remote

When working on open source, you will normally clone a forked version of the repository, but you may want to add the original version as a remote as well so you can pull other people's changes into your local repository. This remote is conventionally called `upstream` and can be added using `git remote add upstream <Repo>` where Repo is the URL of the original repository.

#### Synchronizing changes

When new changes are merged into the original repository, you should pull them into your local copy. If you have set your `upstream` repository, this can be done using `git pull upstream main`. Some repositories use a name other than `main` for their main branch, in which case you replace `main` with the name it uses. You can pull the main branch directly into your working branch.

When you have made changes on your local machine and you want to submit them via a pull request, you first need to push your changes to your fork using `git push origin your-branch-name`.

### Advanced Git workflows

Collaborating with someone on a contribution and synchronizing your work:

The following workflows are useful when collaborating with another person in Open Source

#### Workflow for checking out someone elses branch on your local machine

Let's assume that you and your teammate, Alice, forked a project repository and you want to go to Alice's branch in your local machine.

1. You add Alice's fork as a remote on your local repository using `git remote add alice <Alice's Repo URL>`.
2. You fetch Alice's branches using `git fetch alice`.
3. You can now go to Alice's branch using `git checkout alices-branch-name`.
4. You can now pull changes pushed by Alice using `git pull alice alices-branch-name`.

#### Workflow for collaborating on a shared branch between two different forks

Let's assume that you and another teemmate, Bob, both have a fork of a project and want to collaborate on a contribution using one branch:

1. You adds Bob's fork as a remote on your local repository using `git remote add bob <Bob's Repo URL>`.
2. Bob adds your fork as a remote on his local repository using `git remote add your-name <Alice's Repo URL>`.
3. You can now pull changes pushed by Bob using `git pull bob branch-name`.
4. Bob can now pull changes pushed by You using `git pull your-name branch-name`.
5. Either you or Bob can submit the pull request once they have all the work on their fork of the project.
6. Each commit will automatically contain either your or Bob's name, so each person's contributions can be identified.

`git fetch` can be used to fetch branches from someone elses remote, for example Bob can run `git fetch your-name` in the above scenario to fetch all your branches.

Once branches have been fetched, they can then be checked out locally using `git checkout` in the same way as checking out a local branch.

`git remote -v` can be useful to check that all your remotes are configured as you expect. It will print a list of your remotes.

## Using Github

What is Github? Github is a platform for hosting, sharing and collaborating on Git repositories. Gitlab and Bitbucket are two other similar platforms.

You can interact with Github through the web GUI on [github.com](https://github.com). If you prefer working with the command line, there is also a [Github CLI](https://cli.github.com).

### Getting the most out of your Github profile

You can make basic customizations of your profile in your settings, add a website and Twitter links, a short bio and customize your pinned repositories to showcase the work you most want the world to see. But to really customize your profile you need to create a repository in your account with the same name as your Github username and pop in a Readme. The contents of that Readme file, in Github-flavored markdown, will be rendered on your profile page. There are all kinds of cool integrations you can add to this readme to do awesome things on your profile. These two articles: [Creating a Killer GitHub Profile README, by Braydon Coyer](https://daily.dev/blog/creating-a-killer-github-profile-readme-part-1) and [How to Create Beautiful GitHub Profil Readme.md, by Indrajeet Nikam](https://fullyunderstood.com/how-to-create-beautiful-github-profile-readmemd/) will hopefully give you some inspiration.

This is an example of one of our member's profiles built using a profile readme:

![An example profile page](https://ams03pap002files.storage.live.com/y4mRCWqe-HFTvjsstwwqyHWhS3sithntcM0bpqad2-S6_2dMCx982CrqDnV9bxVSWrdbFRDNpcqdnte5FqHahDqB4tcxDb8xFVg4l2nMT_4X7pFQ4fm80S1gFaaqh9hy5cNH8hZ8xHE1Tj9XtzhpKE6eMiFnGFR6OqeRXfxNECArhp2ZQoOAngWRPXpqJm7KVid?width=821&height=907&cropmode=none)

### Basic Github workflows:

#### Forking a repository:

If you want to contribute to an open source project, the first step is normally to fork the repository to your own Github profile. This means you create a copy of the repository in your profile so that you can make changes without having to push commits directly to the project repository. The steps to do so are:

1. Click on the fork button on the repository page.
2. You will probably be asked where you want to fork the repository to. Unless you are forking on behalf of an organization, you should click on your personal profile name.
3. Github will then fork the repository to your profile. You can then work with this forked repository going forward.

#### Cloning a repository to your local computer

Although you can edit files directly within the Github UI, if you are changing the code you will normally want to clone it to your local computer and work in your favorite IDE. To do this you will need to clone the repository. To do this, click on the green `Code` button on your forked version of the repository. You will then see a dialog with options to clone via HTTPS, SSH or Github CLI. The HTTPS and SSH (Used if you authenticate with Github via SSH, see section below) tabs provide you with the repository URL to insert into the `git clone` command from the Git section above. If you use Github CLI you can simply copy the command and run it in your terminal.

#### Authenticating with Github

If you want to work locally with Github repositories, you will need to authenticate your local git with Github (You don't need to do this to simply clone a public repository via HTTPS). You can either use a Personal Access Token to authenticate over HTTPS ([Instructions here](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/about-authentication-to-github#https)) or by using SSH public/private keypairs ([Instructions here](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/about-authentication-to-github#ssh)).

#### Fetching upstream changes

When contributing to a project, you need to keep your fork up to date with the original, generally known as the upstream repository. You can do this using the Synchronizing Changes Git workflow outlined above, or you can use the `Fetch upstream` button on your fork. This will allow you to either automatically fetch the changes, or choose to compare them first before merging.

#### Making a pull request

Once you have done some work on a project and you have your changes in your forked version of the repository, you can now submit the changes to the upstream repository by making a pull request. This allows the maintainers to review your work, make comments and request any necessary changes, and if they are happy, merge your changes into the project codebase. Before making a pull request you should make sure to fetch any upstream changes. The steps to make a pull request are:

1. Either navigate to `Pull Requests` on the upstream repository and click the green `New pull request` button or on you forked repository, select the branch you'd like to submit, click on `contribute` and then `Open pull request`. If you have recently pushed changes to Github, you should also see a banner at the top of the page with a `Compare and pull request` button you can click on.
2. You will then get taken to the Open pull request form, where you can create a description of your pull request. Here you should check out the project's Contributing guidelines and follow any conventions described. Many projects will have a pull request template to help you get it right.
3. Once you are ready, click `Create pull request`. Congratulations, you have made your pull request 🎉.
4. If a maintainer requests changes you can make the requested changes and push new commits to the same branch and they will automatically be added to the pull request.

</TextContainer>
