src/resources/virtual-coffee/guide-to-vc.md, before:

---
layout: layouts/default.njk
title: Guide To Virtual Coffee
description: A user guide for current members to get the most out of Virtual Coffee.
hero: 'svg/undraw_product_teardown_elol.svg'
heroHeader: 'About Virtual Coffee'
heroSubheader: A user guide for current members to get the most out of Virtual Coffee.
tags: memberresources
order: 1
---

{% textContainer 'light'%}

## Welcome to Virtual Coffee! 👋 {.display-4 .mb-5}

{% leadText %}

Onboarding processes can be confusing. This is just as true for software as it is for communities!

We get many questions such as "I have some questions or ideas; how and where should I ask this," "Do we have a channel for {something}," "How do I find a channel in Slack," "I would like to help, how do I volunteer?" And many more!

To give you the best experience, and to get the most out of Virtual Coffee, we created the official "Virtual Coffee Guide"!

{% endleadText %}

---

## Table of Contents:

${toc}

---

## [Code of Conduct](/code-of-conduct)

This is the most important part of Virtual Coffee. We want this community to be a welcoming, inclusive, supportive, and safe place for all our members.

We pledge to make participation in our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size, visible or invisible disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of experience, education, socio-economic status, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

_We take our Code of Conduct seriously._ You can find [a copy of it](/code-of-conduct) on our website.

### I think someone has violated the Code of Conduct. How can I report it?

You can report your experience to our Maintainers at hello@virtualcoffee.io or anonymously at [virtualcoffee.io/report-coc-violation](https://virtualcoffee.io/report-coc-violation).

{% endtextContainer %}

{% textContainer 'white' %}

## What To Expect In Virtual Coffee {.display-4 .mb-5}

### Coffees (Zoom Meetings)

{% leadText %}

We have twice weekly Coffees (Zoom Meetings) on **Tuesday at 9:00 AM ET** and **Thursday at 12:00 PM ET** that last an hour.

{% endleadText %}

This is a good place and time to meet and get to know other members, old and new, through casual conversations.

After some pre-coffee chatter while people filter in, the Coffee MC will do an intro with some background and important announcements. Then we'll break the crowd into breakout rooms for more relaxed and intimate conversations.

#### How to Participate

When we move to the small group conversations, there will be a room leader and notetaker for the room. They'll explain how we do introductions and how to participate. We value all of our members and the ways they're most comfortable participating.</p>

If you're here to listen and chill? No problem! If you can't turn on your camera, or aren't comfortable having your camera or even sound on? Feel free to turn them off! There is no obligation for you to have them on. We want you to be as comfortable as possible in our coffees.

---

### Virtual Coffee On Slack

{% leadText %}

Much of Virtual Coffee occurs on Slack. We have channels in our Slack to accommodate our members. We encourage members to participate in Slack to get the most out of Virtual Coffee.

{% endleadText %}

#### How to find channels in Slack?

##### On computer:

- Hover over to Channel tab on the left side
- Click the "+" button
- Click "Browse channels"
- Find a channel that you want to join
- Click "Join" button

##### On phone:

- Click the "+" button
- Search a channel by scrolling down
- Click on the channel
- Click "Join channel" button

Tips: You can scroll in a channel's conversation to understand better what the channel is all about before clicking the "Join" button.

#### How to leave a channel in Slack?

If you decided to leave a channel:

##### On computer:

- Right click on the channel that you want to leave
- Click "Leave channel"

##### On phone:

- Click on the channel that you want to leave
- Click the "i" button at the top right corner
- Click "Leave"

#### Several useful channels in our Slack (in no particular order)

- ##### `#help-and-pairing`

  Do you have any questions about your code? Or do you need someone to help you by pairing? You can ask for it on this channel. Some of our members also provide open-office schedules to help other members in need that you can find pinned in this channel.

- ##### `#co-working-room`
  Do you want to work or learn with people around, or just want to hang out with other members? Thanks to Dan Ott, we now have a co-working-room channel linked to our Zoom so our members can connect with each other, anytime they want! It's open 24/7!
- ##### `#tech-interview-study-group`

  We have weekly meetings to discuss anything related to job search and interviews. Also based on request, some of our members will help to do mock interviews. We value collaboration, mutual support, and helping each other as we all navigate the complex job search.

  Need some feedback on your resume? Have a question about the tech interview process? This channel is a great resource.

- ##### `#content-creation`

  Do you have any questions around blog posts, or streaming, or video content? Or you simply want to share your work? This is the channel that you're looking for.

  Members meet up every couple of weeks to get feedback on their content, problem solve, and talk about content creation. Links to those meetups are posted in the channel.

- ##### `#book-club`
  If you love reading, this is a great way to read and discuss what you're learning! At the beginning of the month the moderator of the book club channel will pick a book to read based on member choice. There are weekly discussion questions, a reading schedule, and a live group discussion at the end of the book.
- ##### `#health-and-fitness`
  Because we also need to think of our health! This channel is very useful to share your regular workouts and healthy habits.
- ##### `#goals-and-wins`
  What are your goals this week? Do you have any wins? Feel free to share them here!
- ##### `#parenting`
  Some of us are parents, and we need support from each other too!

---

### [Virtual Coffee Events](/events)

{% leadText %}

Our members voluntarily hold events from members to members! Check out [our Events page](/events) for a full listing.

{% endleadText %}

#### [Monthly Challenges](/monthlychallenges/)

Every month we hold a [monthly challenge](/monthlychallenges/) which we encourage our members to participate in!

At the end of the month there would be an announcement on what we will do for the upcoming monthly challenge. Starting at the beginning of the month, members can update their progress in a Slack’s channel that is provided special for monthly challenges.

#### Lunch & Learn

Lunch & Learns are hour-long events lead by our members. They can be traditional conference-style talk, panel discussion, question and answer, or a combination.

If a member has a topic that they want to present as a Lunch & Learn, they can do so by filling out [the Lunch & Learn Idea form](/lunch-and-learn-idea/). A coordinator will reach out and get the talk scheduled and put on the events calendar.

#### Lightning Talks

Occasionally we hold Lightning Talk sessions. A group of members take turns presenting their talk in a 5-20 minutes time range. A Call for Proposals will be shared in Virtual Coffee Slack. This is a great way to try your hand at public speaking! We always provide mentorship for those who want it.

Do check the [playlist on youtube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLh9uT23TA65infGqUUaVibI0IssI0G6NY) from our latest sessions!

#### HacktoberFest

Yes! We do participate in [Digital Ocean's HacktoberFest](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com)! In fact, Virtual Coffee is also open source. Every October we help our members to contribute to and/or maintain open sources.

{% endtextContainer %}

{% textContainer 'light' %}

## Giving Back To The Community {.display-4 .mb-5}

### Volunteering At Virtual Coffee

As you can see, Virtual Coffee has Coffees (Zoom Meetings), events, even office hours! And these are all becoming possible thanks to our members who run these voluntarily.

If you would like to volunteer in anything, please contact one of our [community maintainers](/members/), or reach out to us at hello@virtualcoffee.io.

---

### Contributing To Virtual Coffee

#### Open Source

Virtual Coffee’s website is [open source](https://github.com/Virtual-Coffee/virtualcoffee.io) and we love contributions!

Please read our [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/Virtual-Coffee/virtualcoffee.io/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for some guidance on contributing to virtualcoffee.io!

#### [Sponsorship](https://github.com/sponsors/Virtual-Coffee)

Our members volunteer their time and support for Virtual Coffee to run. [Sponsorships](https://github.com/sponsors/Virtual-Coffee) help us to continue serving the Virtual Coffee community, and to support all of the things you see on this page!

{% endtextContainer %}

{% textContainer 'white' %}

## Keeping Up With Virtual Coffee {.display-4 .mb-5}

### [Virtual Coffee Podcast](/podcast/)

We interview members of the community to learn more about their stories, who they are, how they found Virtual Coffee, and how that influences their lives as developers.

You can subscribe and listen to our backlog of episodes on the [Virtual Coffee Podcast page](/podcast/).

---

### [Virtual Coffee Newsletter](/newsletter)

Every month we publish a newsletter for our members to keep up with Virtual Coffee. Our newsletter includes upcoming Virtual Coffee events, interesting things our members are doing, and lots more.

You can subscribe to or read the newsletter on the [Virtual Coffee Newsletter page](/newsletter).

---

### [@VirtualCoffeeIO</a> on Twitter](https://twitter.com/VirtualCoffeeIO)

Come chat on Twitter!

---

### [VC on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCc0579aGEy7jTAgRglR4J0g)

We post event recordings and other resources on our [YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCc0579aGEy7jTAgRglR4J0g).

{% endtextContainer %}

Commit message:

update member resources to use navigation

src/resources/virtual-coffee/guide-to-vc.md, after:

---
layout: layouts/resources.njk
title: Guide To Virtual Coffee
description: A user guide for current members to get the most out of Virtual Coffee.
hero: 'svg/undraw_product_teardown_elol.svg'
heroHeader: 'About Virtual Coffee'
heroSubheader: A user guide for current members to get the most out of Virtual Coffee.
tags: memberresources
eleventyNavigation:
  key: GuideToVirtualCoffee
  title: Guide To Virtual Coffee
  excerpt: A user guide for current members to get the most out of Virtual Coffee.
  parent: VcResources
  order: 2
---

{% textContainer 'light'%}

## Welcome to Virtual Coffee! 👋 {.display-4 .mb-5}

{% leadText %}

Onboarding processes can be confusing. This is just as true for software as it is for communities!

We get many questions such as "I have some questions or ideas; how and where should I ask this," "Do we have a channel for {something}," "How do I find a channel in Slack," "I would like to help, how do I volunteer?" And many more!

To give you the best experience, and to get the most out of Virtual Coffee, we created the official "Virtual Coffee Guide"!

{% endleadText %}

---

<h2>Table of Contents</h2>

${toc}

---

## [Code of Conduct](/code-of-conduct)

This is the most important part of Virtual Coffee. We want this community to be a welcoming, inclusive, supportive, and safe place for all our members.

We pledge to make participation in our community a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of age, body size, visible or invisible disability, ethnicity, gender identity and expression, level of experience, education, socio-economic status, nationality, personal appearance, race, religion, or sexual identity and orientation.

_We take our Code of Conduct seriously._ You can find [a copy of it](/code-of-conduct) on our website.

### I think someone has violated the Code of Conduct. How can I report it?

You can report your experience to our Maintainers at hello@virtualcoffee.io or anonymously at [virtualcoffee.io/report-coc-violation](https://virtualcoffee.io/report-coc-violation).

{% endtextContainer %}

{% textContainer 'white' %}

## What To Expect In Virtual Coffee {.display-4 .mb-5}

### Coffees (Zoom Meetings)

{% leadText %}

We have twice weekly Coffees (Zoom Meetings) on **Tuesday at 9:00 AM ET** and **Thursday at 12:00 PM ET** that last an hour.

{% endleadText %}

This is a good place and time to meet and get to know other members, old and new, through casual conversations.

After some pre-coffee chatter while people filter in, the Coffee MC will do an intro with some background and important announcements. Then we'll break the crowd into breakout rooms for more relaxed and intimate conversations.

#### How to Participate

When we move to the small group conversations, there will be a room leader and notetaker for the room. They'll explain how we do introductions and how to participate. We value all of our members and the ways they're most comfortable participating.</p>

If you're here to listen and chill? No problem! If you can't turn on your camera, or aren't comfortable having your camera or even sound on? Feel free to turn them off! There is no obligation for you to have them on. We want you to be as comfortable as possible in our coffees.

---

### Virtual Coffee On Slack

{% leadText %}

Much of Virtual Coffee occurs on Slack. We have channels in our Slack to accommodate our members. We encourage members to participate in Slack to get the most out of Virtual Coffee.

{% endleadText %}

#### How to find channels in Slack?

##### On computer:

- Hover over to Channel tab on the left side
- Click the "+" button
- Click "Browse channels"
- Find a channel that you want to join
- Click "Join" button

##### On phone:

- Click the "+" button
- Search a channel by scrolling down
- Click on the channel
- Click "Join channel" button

Tips: You can scroll in a channel's conversation to understand better what the channel is all about before clicking the "Join" button.

#### How to leave a channel in Slack?

If you decided to leave a channel:

##### On computer:

- Right click on the channel that you want to leave
- Click "Leave channel"

##### On phone:

- Click on the channel that you want to leave
- Click the "i" button at the top right corner
- Click "Leave"

#### Several useful channels in our Slack (in no particular order)

- ##### `#help-and-pairing`

  Do you have any questions about your code? Or do you need someone to help you by pairing? You can ask for it on this channel. Some of our members also provide open-office schedules to help other members in need that you can find pinned in this channel.

- ##### `#co-working-room`
  Do you want to work or learn with people around, or just want to hang out with other members? Thanks to Dan Ott, we now have a co-working-room channel linked to our Zoom so our members can connect with each other, anytime they want! It's open 24/7!
- ##### `#tech-interview-study-group`

  We have weekly meetings to discuss anything related to job search and interviews. Also based on request, some of our members will help to do mock interviews. We value collaboration, mutual support, and helping each other as we all navigate the complex job search.

  Need some feedback on your resume? Have a question about the tech interview process? This channel is a great resource.

- ##### `#content-creation`

  Do you have any questions around blog posts, or streaming, or video content? Or you simply want to share your work? This is the channel that you're looking for.

  Members meet up every couple of weeks to get feedback on their content, problem solve, and talk about content creation. Links to those meetups are posted in the channel.

- ##### `#book-club`
  If you love reading, this is a great way to read and discuss what you're learning! At the beginning of the month the moderator of the book club channel will pick a book to read based on member choice. There are weekly discussion questions, a reading schedule, and a live group discussion at the end of the book.
- ##### `#health-and-fitness`
  Because we also need to think of our health! This channel is very useful to share your regular workouts and healthy habits.
- ##### `#goals-and-wins`
  What are your goals this week? Do you have any wins? Feel free to share them here!
- ##### `#parenting`
  Some of us are parents, and we need support from each other too!

---

### [Virtual Coffee Events](/events)

{% leadText %}

Our members voluntarily hold events from members to members! Check out [our Events page](/events) for a full listing.

{% endleadText %}

#### [Monthly Challenges](/monthlychallenges/)

Every month we hold a [monthly challenge](/monthlychallenges/) which we encourage our members to participate in!

At the end of the month there would be an announcement on what we will do for the upcoming monthly challenge. Starting at the beginning of the month, members can update their progress in a Slack’s channel that is provided special for monthly challenges.

#### Lunch & Learn

Lunch & Learns are hour-long events lead by our members. They can be traditional conference-style talk, panel discussion, question and answer, or a combination.

If a member has a topic that they want to present as a Lunch & Learn, they can do so by filling out [the Lunch & Learn Idea form](/lunch-and-learn-idea/). A coordinator will reach out and get the talk scheduled and put on the events calendar.

#### Lightning Talks

Occasionally we hold Lightning Talk sessions. A group of members take turns presenting their talk in a 5-20 minutes time range. A Call for Proposals will be shared in Virtual Coffee Slack. This is a great way to try your hand at public speaking! We always provide mentorship for those who want it.

Do check the [playlist on youtube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLh9uT23TA65infGqUUaVibI0IssI0G6NY) from our latest sessions!

#### HacktoberFest

Yes! We do participate in [Digital Ocean's HacktoberFest](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com)! In fact, Virtual Coffee is also open source. Every October we help our members to contribute to and/or maintain open sources.

{% endtextContainer %}

{% textContainer 'light' %}

## Giving Back To The Community {.display-4 .mb-5}

### Volunteering At Virtual Coffee

As you can see, Virtual Coffee has Coffees (Zoom Meetings), events, even office hours! And these are all becoming possible thanks to our members who run these voluntarily.

If you would like to volunteer in anything, please contact one of our [community maintainers](/members/), or reach out to us at hello@virtualcoffee.io.

---

### Contributing To Virtual Coffee

#### Open Source

Virtual Coffee’s website is [open source](https://github.com/Virtual-Coffee/virtualcoffee.io) and we love contributions!

Please read our [Contributing Guide](https://github.com/Virtual-Coffee/virtualcoffee.io/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for some guidance on contributing to virtualcoffee.io!

#### [Sponsorship](https://github.com/sponsors/Virtual-Coffee)

Our members volunteer their time and support for Virtual Coffee to run. [Sponsorships](https://github.com/sponsors/Virtual-Coffee) help us to continue serving the Virtual Coffee community, and to support all of the things you see on this page!

{% endtextContainer %}

{% textContainer 'white' %}

## Keeping Up With Virtual Coffee {.display-4 .mb-5}

### [Virtual Coffee Podcast](/podcast/)

We interview members of the community to learn more about their stories, who they are, how they found Virtual Coffee, and how that influences their lives as developers.

You can subscribe and listen to our backlog of episodes on the [Virtual Coffee Podcast page](/podcast/).

---

### [Virtual Coffee Newsletter](/newsletter)

Every month we publish a newsletter for our members to keep up with Virtual Coffee. Our newsletter includes upcoming Virtual Coffee events, interesting things our members are doing, and lots more.

You can subscribe to or read the newsletter on the [Virtual Coffee Newsletter page](/newsletter).

---

### [@VirtualCoffeeIO</a> on Twitter](https://twitter.com/VirtualCoffeeIO)

Come chat on Twitter!

---

### [VC on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCc0579aGEy7jTAgRglR4J0g)

We post event recordings and other resources on our [YouTube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCc0579aGEy7jTAgRglR4J0g).

{% endtextContainer %}
