app/routes/resources/virtual-coffee/join-virtual-coffee.mdx, before:

---
meta:
  title: Join Virtual Coffee
  description: We're answering your questions about joining Virtual Coffee!
hero:
  Hero: UndrawJoin
tags: [memberresources]
order: 1
---

import LeadText from '~/components/content/LeadText';
import TextContainer from '~/components/content/TextContainer';

<TextContainer background="light" showBackToTopLink={false}>

Hi there! 👋

<LeadText>

Since you’re on this page, you must have heard about Virtual Coffee. We're glad you're here and interested in learning more. We've created a list of the top questions about Virtual Coffee below. If there's a question you have and you don't see answered here, feel free to <a href="mailto:hello@virtualcoffee.io">reach out to us</a>.

</LeadText>

</TextContainer>

## Table of Contents

<TextContainer>

---

## F.A.Q.

### How can I join Virtual Coffee?

#### 1. Attend one of our Coffees (Zoom Meetings)

<LeadText>

You need to attend one of [Coffees (Zoom Meetings)](</resources/virtual-coffee/guide-to-vc/#coffees-(zoom-meetings)>) on **Tuesday at 9:00 AM ET** or **Thursday at 12:00 PM ET** that last an hour.

</LeadText>

We absolutely love the closeness of this community and know it’s one of the many things that sets us apart. This closeness starts with those coffees.
We would also like to give you the experience of Virtual Coffee in person before we move to Slack group.

[Sign up and RSVP for a Coffee](https://meetingplace.io/virtual-coffee) and get the link to our Zoom.

#### 2. Complete the registration form 😊

Our MC will drop the link of the New Member Form together with the [Code of Conduct](/code-of-conduct/) and other links during the intro of Coffee. The New Member Form will be dropped again at the end of the session.

Grab the form, fill it in, and submit it. Then, you will be given access to our Slack group.

#### 3. So now you’re in our Slack! Welcome! 👋

You can introduce yourself in this channel. We would love to know who you are, where you are in your tech journey, and what you enjoy outside of tech!

---

### What is going on in Coffees?

We’re getting to know other members, old and new, through casual conversations on Zoom. We prioritize empathy, encouraging everyone to participate in the ways that are most comfortable to them, and learning together.
Check out our [Guide To Virtual Coffee](/resources/virtual-coffee/guide-to-vc/) for more details.

---

### Are there any other days and times for Coffees?

Not yet, but we're working on it!

---

### I’m an introvert. Would it be okay to turn off my camera during Coffees?

If you aren't comfortable having your camera or even sound on, feel free to turn them off! There is no obligation for you to have them on. You can always drop chat if it’s more convenient for you. We want you to be as comfortable as possible in our coffees.

---

### I’m a newbie. Can I still join Virtual Coffee?

Of course! Our members are at all stages of the journey. Anyone can join, whether you're thinking about getting into tech or have been in it for decades!

---

### I’m not a developer. Can I still join Virtual Coffee?

Absolutely! If you’re into online communities, and enjoy conversations around tech, then Virtual Coffee is for you!

---

### What will I get when I join Virtual Coffee?

You can participate in our [events](/events), have access to our slack, get support and help as you need, mentorship, and most of all, FRIENDSHIPS!
Feel free to take a glimpse of [what’s going on in Virtual Coffee](/resources/virtual-coffee/guide-to-vc/#what-to-expect-in-virtual-coffee) to get some more insights.

---

### Is there any membership fee?

None, _nada_! You don’t need to pay memberships to join Virtual Coffee.
Our members volunteer their time and support for Virtual Coffee.
[Sponsorships](https://github.com/sponsors/Virtual-Coffee) helps us to continue serving the Virtual Coffee community and to support all of the things you see on this website!

</TextContainer>

<TextContainer background="light">

See you in one of our Coffees! ☕

If you have any other questions, you can email them to our Maintainers at hello@virtualcoffee.io.

</TextContainer>

Commit message:

Change intro to pausing membership (#569)
* Delete link to meetingplace
* Fix h2

app/routes/resources/virtual-coffee/join-virtual-coffee.mdx, after:

---
meta:
  title: Join Virtual Coffee
  description: We're answering your questions about joining Virtual Coffee!
hero:
  Hero: UndrawJoin
tags: [memberresources]
order: 1
---

import LeadText from '~/components/content/LeadText';
import TextContainer from '~/components/content/TextContainer';

<TextContainer background="light" showBackToTopLink={false}>

## Hi there! 👋

<LeadText>

As we move into the third year of Virtual Coffee, the maintainers—with the help of a team of invested community members—have decided to pause the new membership while we work on finding the best ways to support our existing community and define what the new year will look like for us all.

Follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/VirtualCoffeeIO) for the latest update while the new membership is paused.

</LeadText>

</TextContainer>

## Table of Contents

<TextContainer>

---

## F.A.Q.

### How can I join Virtual Coffee?

#### 1. Attend one of our Coffees (Zoom Meetings)

<LeadText>

You need to attend one of [Coffees (Zoom Meetings)](</resources/virtual-coffee/guide-to-vc/#coffees-(zoom-meetings)>) on **Tuesday at 9:00 AM ET** or **Thursday at 12:00 PM ET** that last an hour.

</LeadText>

We absolutely love the closeness of this community and know it’s one of the many things that sets us apart. This closeness starts with those coffees.
We would also like to give you the experience of Virtual Coffee in person before we move to Slack group.

#### 2. Complete the registration form 😊

Our MC will drop the link of the New Member Form together with the [Code of Conduct](/code-of-conduct/) and other links during the intro of Coffee. The New Member Form will be dropped again at the end of the session.

Grab the form, fill it in, and submit it. Then, you will be given access to our Slack group.

#### 3. So now you’re in our Slack! Welcome! 👋

You can introduce yourself in this channel. We would love to know who you are, where you are in your tech journey, and what you enjoy outside of tech!

---

### What is going on in Coffees?

We’re getting to know other members, old and new, through casual conversations on Zoom. We prioritize empathy, encouraging everyone to participate in the ways that are most comfortable to them, and learning together.
Check out our [Guide To Virtual Coffee](/resources/virtual-coffee/guide-to-vc/) for more details.

---

### Are there any other days and times for Coffees?

Not yet, but we're working on it!

---

### I’m an introvert. Would it be okay to turn off my camera during Coffees?

If you aren't comfortable having your camera or even sound on, feel free to turn them off! There is no obligation for you to have them on. You can always drop chat if it’s more convenient for you. We want you to be as comfortable as possible in our coffees.

---

### I’m a newbie. Can I still join Virtual Coffee?

Of course! Our members are at all stages of the journey. Anyone can join, whether you're thinking about getting into tech or have been in it for decades!

---

### I’m not a developer. Can I still join Virtual Coffee?

Absolutely! If you’re into online communities, and enjoy conversations around tech, then Virtual Coffee is for you!

---

### What will I get when I join Virtual Coffee?

You can participate in our [events](/events), have access to our slack, get support and help as you need, mentorship, and most of all, FRIENDSHIPS!
Feel free to take a glimpse of [what’s going on in Virtual Coffee](/resources/virtual-coffee/guide-to-vc/#what-to-expect-in-virtual-coffee) to get some more insights.

---

### Is there any membership fee?

None, _nada_! You don’t need to pay memberships to join Virtual Coffee.
Our members volunteer their time and support for Virtual Coffee.
[Sponsorships](https://github.com/sponsors/Virtual-Coffee) helps us to continue serving the Virtual Coffee community and to support all of the things you see on this website!

</TextContainer>

<TextContainer background="light">

See you in one of our Coffees! ☕

If you have any other questions, you can email them to our Maintainers at hello@virtualcoffee.io.

</TextContainer>
