app/routes/__simpleMdx/about.mdx, before:

---
meta:
  title: About Virtual Coffee
  description: 'All about Virtual Coffee: Our Mission, Core Values, History, and more.'
hero:
  Hero: UndrawDreamer
---

## Who we are

Virtual Coffee is, and always will be, a genuine community of people who value and prioritize supporting one another. We know that growth comes at all levels and that no matter what stage of the developer journey you're on, you can teach and learn.

Our twice-weekly live coffees with devs at all stages of the journey has grown into an online community that mentors, creates educational content, and provides a safe community at no cost. Since our first coffee in April 2020, we've added a lively slack, a site, Lunch & Learn talks, an Interview Series, a Hacktoberfest Initiative, and Lightning Talks.

Virtual Coffee is focused on being a positive and supporting place. We’re here to cheer you on when you land a job, get a promotion, or write your first blog post.

---

## Our Mission

Virtual Coffee's mission is to be a welcoming tech community that allows room for growth and mentorship at all levels, and to create meaningful opportunities for learning, leadership, and contribution for everyone.

## Our Vision

We welcome and support developers at all stages to create a more empathetic tech community.

## Our Core Values

- We use a person-first approach.
- We let intimacy, empathy, and respect inform our decisions.
- We create and support positive and inclusive community.
- We work to remove tech barriers.
- We believe everyone has the ability to teach and learn, and that collaboration of developers at all stages enriches our community.
- We meet people where they are, make space for everyone, and encourage the exchange and explorations of new ideas to create close relationships.
- We believe in a growth-mindset and encourage and create meaningful opportunities for learning and mentorship, creating a closer community through participation, leadership, and contributions.
- We value synchronous communication and events as a medium that encourages all of the above and enriches the asynchronous experiences.

---

### Becoming a Member

As we move into the third year of Virtual Coffee, the maintainers—with the help of a team of invested community members—have decided to pause the new membership while we work on finding the best ways to support our existing community and define what the new year will look like for us all.

Follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/VirtualCoffeeIO) for the latest update while the new membership is paused.

You can find out more about our community and what we offer in our [Member Resources section](/resources/virtual-coffee).

Commit message:

Waiting list (#638)
* Add New Memember waitlist page

* Rename, update content

* update copy to use button instead of embed

* add thank you page

* Update content for membership waiting list

* Update content across site

Co-authored-by: BekahHW <rhawrot@gmail.com>

app/routes/__simpleMdx/about.mdx, after:

---
meta:
  title: About Virtual Coffee
  description: 'All about Virtual Coffee: Our Mission, Core Values, History, and more.'
hero:
  Hero: UndrawDreamer
---

import { Link } from '@remix-run/react';

## Who we are

Virtual Coffee is, and always will be, a genuine community of people who value and prioritize supporting one another. We know that growth comes at all levels and that no matter what stage of the developer journey you're on, you can teach and learn.

Our twice-weekly live coffees with devs at all stages of the journey has grown into an online community that mentors, creates educational content, and provides a safe community at no cost. Since our first coffee in April 2020, we've added a lively slack, a site, Lunch & Learn talks, an Interview Series, a Hacktoberfest Initiative, and Lightning Talks.

Virtual Coffee is focused on being a positive and supporting place. We’re here to cheer you on when you land a job, get a promotion, or write your first blog post.

---

## Our Mission

Virtual Coffee's mission is to be a welcoming tech community that allows room for growth and mentorship at all levels, and to create meaningful opportunities for learning, leadership, and contribution for everyone.

## Our Vision

We welcome and support developers at all stages to create a more empathetic tech community.

## Our Core Values

- We use a person-first approach.
- We let intimacy, empathy, and respect inform our decisions.
- We create and support positive and inclusive community.
- We work to remove tech barriers.
- We believe everyone has the ability to teach and learn, and that collaboration of developers at all stages enriches our community.
- We meet people where they are, make space for everyone, and encourage the exchange and explorations of new ideas to create close relationships.
- We believe in a growth-mindset and encourage and create meaningful opportunities for learning and mentorship, creating a closer community through participation, leadership, and contributions.
- We value synchronous communication and events as a medium that encourages all of the above and enriches the asynchronous experiences.

---

## Becoming a Member

Virtual Coffee is a community that welcomes people at all stages of their tech journey. Our mission is to be a welcoming tech community that allows room for growth and mentorship at all levels, and to create meaningful opportunities for learning, leadership, and contribution for everyone.

To preserve what makes Virtual Coffee special and support our existing members, we intentionally keep our group small. We'd love to have everyone as a part of Virtual Coffee, but we prioritize the intimacy and closeness of the group. Our community is currently accepting members on a limited basis. As new membership becomes available, we'll reach out to those on the waitlist to join.

<Link to="/join" className="text-lg">
	Join the Waitlist!
</Link>
